Our project is built, it's ready to go.
Let's go ahead and
stop it just here for a second.
And we're gonna run a bunch of installs,
and I'm just gonna copy and
paste it out of here.
We're gonna run all of
these installs right here.
Let's talk about them for just a second.
The first one is postcss here.
Under the hood, Parcel has already
been using postcss this entire time,
you just didn't know it.
This is the part or
the the tool that transpiles your
futuristic CSS into older CSS.
It's just like Babble but for
CSS, it's a transpiler for CSS.
The part that actually does the
transpilation from futuristic to old CSS
is called autoprefixer.
This is going to go and automatically,
if you're trying to support IE 11,
it'll transpile your gradients to those
old style Internet Explorer 11 gradients,
right?
It does those kind of translations for
you.
And then we're gonna install Tailwind CSS.
And we do this fancy aliasing, but
it's basically going to make this package,
which is a compatibility layer
between old postcss 7 and
the new postcss 8 that
Tailwind 2 requires.
So this is just an alias of that package.
They do this so that you can
use it with Parcel, basically.
And then we're gonna reinstall it again,
just so
we can get the command line interface.
That's why we're installing it twice.
Don't worry,
it's only gonna install the package once.
So just copy all of that so
you don't have to type out all of it.
And we're going to paste that.
As soon as we have post or Parcel 2,
this compatibility layer will not
be necessary anymore,
because Parcel 2 has postcss 8 in it.
So just be aware of that.
So we'll load all these or
install these dependencies.
So kinda to just show you here,
anytime that we say require tailwindcss,
we're just gonna get this package instead.
That's what that alias thing means.
Probably don't need to know that,
I rarely have to use it, but
it's a useful thing to know.
Okay, and then the next thing that we
wanna do here is npx tailwindcss init.
So what this does is this will go
into our Node modules directory.
And inside of your Node modules directory,
this is a .bin folder.
And inside of that .bin folder,
there's a bunch of available binaries
that your packages install for you.
So one we can see here is eslint,
it has its own binary that you can run.
So if I said npx eslint,
it would run this eslint, right?
That's the connection
I'm trying to draw here.
One of them you'll see
down here is tailwindcss.
We can do npx tailwindcss then commands,
right?
So that's what we're gonna do right
here is we're gonna tailwindcss,
it's gonna run this binary, and
then we're gonna run the init command,
which is going to generate a config for
us.
If you've ever done TypeScript and
npx tsc init, it's a similar idea.
So you should see here
Created Tailwind config.
And now if we go back to
our File Explorer here,
out of this you'll see that we
have this tailwind.config.js.
That should look something like that,
very bare bones of just here's a bare
bones Tailwind project ready to go.
Okay, good so far?
Now we have a base level config here.
We haven't done anything with it,
but it exists.
The next thing that I want you to do is I
want you to go into your source directory
and go to your style.css.
And just Cmd+A delete, all of it.
So all that CSS is gonna be gone.
And I want you to go
put in @tailwind base,
@tailwind components,
and @tailwind utilities.
Now if you're on VS Code like me,
I imagine many of you are seeing some
underlines underneath this tailwind.
And you would probably like
to make it go away, right?
I imagine many of you are like
me don't like underlines,
that tells me something's wrong,
and something's not wrong here.
So again,
this is just if you're in VS Code,
Cmd comma or
Ctrl comma to go to Settings and
search for css.lint.unknown at rules.
Yours is probably on warning and
just change it to ignore.
And then you should be able
to go back over here and
see these are not underlined anymore.
Basically, your built in bare level
CSS linter is just saying hey,
I don't know what tailwind is.
I'm gonna make sure that
you know what tailwind is.
And we're just telling it,
please stop telling me.
Don't talk to me,
I don't wanna talk to you anymore, right?
That's kinda what we're doing there.
So what is this?
These are directives that come
in from Tailwind that bring
in a bunch of base classes and
components and utilities.
That now we have these new augmented
Tailwind CSS capabilities,
that that plugin that we installed in for
postcss is going to use for us.
Another thing that I'm just gonna have you
install here, again, if you're on VS Code.
Go into your extensions,
search for tailwind, and
there's one called
Tailwind CSS IntelliSense.
This just makes it super easy,
it's going to make suggestions
when you're writing class names.
It's like, hey, this looks like this
thing that you're trying to type,,
I'm going to suggest that
you keep typing it this way.
It's very, very convenient, especially
if you're writing a lot of Tailwind.
Okay, so now we have Tailwind,
it's all set up and should be ready to go.
And we can go ahead and
get started here writing some Tailwind.
So the first thing is let's delete this.
You might need to stop and start your,
Your dev server from Parcel.
So let's just go ahead and do that.
Mine wasn't running, but if you are still
running it, just go ahead and stop it and
start it again.
Anytime you make any configuration
changes to Parcel, like Babble changes or
postcss changes, just a good
idea in general to go ahead and
just change it or
to stop it and start it again.
Okay, so that should start up again.
And if you should go look at your
application, it will look beautiful.
Just stunning, gorgeous unstyled HTML.
You can see here I was very diligent
in getting the same image size every
single time.
But look at that dog, she's so cute, okay.
So the first thing I'm gonna say here is,
there's a bunch of old
class names in our project.
So if we go look at like app.css or
js or something like that,
you can see a bunch of
these are gonna have.
Well, this one doesn't, but
let's look at maybe details.
These have class names in them already
from the previous course, right?
From styling the previous course,
like this one.
You can leave them, you can delete them,
they're not gonna make any effect
now because we're not using
those class names anymore.
But if you see me leave them
somewhere it doesn't matter.
Okay, So let's go to app.js.
Inside of app.js, we have this div right
here and we wanna add some styling to it.
So in this particular case, we would like
to make it have 0 padding and 0 margin.
So how do we do that with Tailwind?
Well, what we're gonna do,
Is we're gonna add a class name here.
className =, we want it to have 0 padding,
so we're gonna put p-0, pretty simple.
We want 0 margin, so we're gonna say m-,
maybe you could guess.
Yeah, 0, we're gonna have m-0.
So this is what signifies to Tailwind I
want 0 padding and I want 0 margin.
What if I wanted a little padding?
1, what if I wanted a bit more?
9, right?
There's just numbers there.
It goes from 1 to 12 and
then it starts kind of skipping around,
it goes 14, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 40,
all the way up to 96 is
the highest number that it has.
And so what's cool about that
is that's a lot of class names.
But what Tailwind actually does for
you is it just goes in detects,
you only used p-0 and p-8.
And I'm only going to include those
classes, then it leaves out the rest of
the classes automatically based
on the build process, right?
It kind of like tree shakes your styles,
which is neat, right?
Then you get the minimum viable CSS,
which is to say that your Tailwind CSS
files are going to be microscopic.
They're gonna be absolutely tiny,
it's gonna be the bare minimum styles
you need to accomplish what you need.
Your trade-off here is that your class
names here are going to get very long,
[LAUGH] right?
Cuz if you wanna apply a lot of
styles like sometimes you do in CSS,
they can tend to get pretty long.
So this is the trade-off
that you're making here.
Okay, so p-0, m-0, I'm good with that.
What if I wanna give
it a background image?
There's no class that I can give it.
So here I have to actually
use a style directly.
Cuz there's no fancy way of doing a class
name that brings in a URL, right?
Does that make any sense?
So some of these things, we do have
to actually go into the style tag and
give it a background.
So we wanna give it a style
equals double curly braces there.
And you wanna give it a background of url.
And then here we're gonna put a URL of
what we actually want that background
image to be.
So it's gonna
be
http://pets-images.dev-apis.com/pets/wall-
paper.
And then here, you can put A,
B, or C, I'm gonna do A.
And the original one is B, and
there's also a C as well, up to you.
All right, so I'm gonna save that now.
And let's go take a look
at our application.
So we have a nice little background now.
And if we look at this Inspect Element
on the background, on the p here.
You know what I forgot to do?
I forgot to make the postcss config,
that's what it is.
So right now, postcss doesn't know that
it's supposed to be picking up the config.
So let's do that.
We're gonna make a new file here and
it's gonna be in the current, or
sorry, the root directory of your project.
Call it .postcssrc.
So in your postcssrc,
you need to have an object
here that's gonna have
a plugins top level item here.
And then here gonna have an autoprefixer.
And we don't have any configuration for
autoprefixer, if you did,
this is where you would put it.
And then for tailwindcss, same thing.
We need postcss to know this exists,
so go look for it,
cuz I won't use it until then.
But at that point, it'll have all
this stuff and it can do that.
So let's go ahead and stop and
start our server again.
Now we can come back over to Adopt Me.
And let's go back to the homepage here.
And if we Inspect Element here,
And we look at the top one here, p-0, m-0.
There we go, finally.
So let's recap the steps
that we took there.
Cuz some of you might be kind of caught
in that loop that I got caught in myself.
Create a postcssrc file.
In there you need to put this,
right, where it has the plugins,
the two things that you need.
The autoprefixer,
cuz we still want it to prefix old CSS or
new CSS for us for old browsers.
And then tailwindcss.
And again,
these are gonna be empty objects,
cuz we're not gonna configure them, okay?
Then what I need you to do is I need
you to stop your Parcel server.
Or you can actually even do it here,
let's just do it from here so
you can see what it looks like.
So stop your Parcel server.
Delete the .cache directory,
delete the dist directory.
And then go ahead and
say npm run dev again.
This will take a while to start up, cuz
it's got a lot of stuff to get through.
So it might take you 10, 15 seconds.
But once you get there,
then you should end up with this.
So now if I inspect the element here and
I look at this p-0,
m-0, you can see the p-0 is bringing
in a 0 padding and a 0 margin.
You also notice that
the typography will change, right?
It'll go from that default weird looking
Times New Roman stuff to something
a little bit more pleasant.
It's probably something sans serif there.
There you go, ui-sans-serif is what it is.
So let's just go through all
the steps that we make sure that we.
The first thing you need to do with
run all of these npm installs, right?
Then you should've done
the npx tailwindcss init,
which will generate
a tailwind.config.js file for you here.
That tailwind.config.js file, we didn't
touch, should just look exactly like that.
Once you have that, you should change
your style.css file to look like this,
tailwind base, tailwind components,
and tailwind utilities.
These are some VS Code things,
you don't need to do that necessarily.
Okay, and then here we just added, I mean,
we just changed out that div
at the top of app.js, right?
This one here, Just changed that.
Okay, and I think that's all I've done.
The question I might have for you is,
what version of Node are you using?
So if you do node -v,
I'm getting 14.9 at the moment
>> I have 14.15
>> Yeah, that should be fine.
>> I'm 14.15 as well, which I believe
is the latest stable version.
>> So I would say delete your .cache,
delete your dist,
delete your Node modules, and
then reinstall everything again.
So do npm install again, and
then run npm run dev again after that.